# Chess-Game
What is a board game that reflects coding challenges to be encountered that are similar to creating a robust software algorithms for real life application; Chess. For those who dont know what chess is; chess is a board game of two players where each player has 16 pieces each on a board consisting of a 8x8 board. The 16 pieces consist of 8 pawns, 2 knights, 2 rooks, 2 bishops, 1 queen and 1 king. For more detailed instructions on how to play chess please refer to the following website: https://www.chess.com/learn-how-to-play-chess

The NoviceKnight Chess application that you will find in this repositery is a 2 player chess made easy. It is made with the intent to help new players to chess learn the game quick. This application will calculate all of the moves and that can be made in a turn and will allow users to only move pieces that are moveable and only to spots that are allowed. The most popular chess application online called "chess.com" simple allows the player to move the piece but provides no instructions on what can be moved and where. For example, NoviceKnight will check if by moving a piece your king will be put in check, if so it will disable the piece so that piece cannot move or only allow you to move those piece in a location that will not put the king at risk of check. This application has the perfect balance of supporting the player while also allowing them to learn by choosing which move to make. The application also keeps track of all pieces on the current board and has a history log that keeps track of all moves carried out so far. This way the application can be utilized to play a full game of chess. In the future I plan to add a single player mode where people can play against an AI. Please do feel free to reach out to me to recommend resources to learn AI.

How to run on local computer:
1. Make sure you have python on your device. If you do not have python please follow the instructions here and download python. https://wiki.python.org/moin/BeginnersGuide/Download
2. Once you have python make sure you have tkinter library and the PIL package downloaded. Please follow this to download tkinter https://docs.python.org/3/library/tkinter.html. Please follow this to download PIL Package https://pypi.org/project/pillow/.
3. Once all of this is downlaoded make a local folder called Python (or anything else) and then another folder called anything you would like and  copy the git repo into that folder. When you wanna run it go to the Python folder and then run from there. This is because the images utlized in the app use relative pathway for which the system has to leave the folder and then come back into it and go into the respective folder.
4. Enjoy and feel free to email or message me any concerns at fuzailm@mcmaster.ca.

Note: This application does not allow Castleing or En Passant as its suppose to help individuals learn the basic's of Chess.
